New scenario for LM-Eval - LLM-as-a-Judge (custom metrics) (#856)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: modules/using-llm-as-a-judge-metrics-with-lmeval.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE

ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]
[id="using-llm-as-a-judge-metrics-with-lmeval_{context}"]
= Using LLM-as-a-Judge metrics with LM-Eval

[role='_abstract']

> You can use a large language model (LLM) as a human-like evaluator to assess the quality of outputs from another LLM.  This is known as LLM-as-a-Judge (LLMaaJ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a large language model (LLM) to assess the quality of outputs from another LLM, known as LLM-as-a-Judge (LLMaaJ).
```
"human-like evaluator" sounds a bit like marketing but we can add it back in if you think it's needed.

It is especially useful when:

* There is no clearly correct answer (for example, when assessing creative writing).
* You want to judge quality (helpfulness, safety, depth), not just accuracy.

> * Traditional quantitative measures used to evaluate a model's performance (for example, `ROUGE` metrics) are not nuanced enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Augment traditional quantitative measures that are used to evaluate a model's performance (for example, `ROUGE` metrics).
```

> * You want to test specific quality aspects of your model output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Test specific quality aspects of your model output.
```

> Follow the custom quality assessment example below to learn more about using your own metrics criteria with LM-Eval to evaluate model responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following custom quality assessment example to learn more about using your own metrics criteria with LM-Eval to evaluate model responses.
```

> In this example, we use link:www.unitxt.ai[Unitxt] to define custom metrics, to see how our model (link:www.huggingface.co/google/flan-t5-small[flan-t5-small]) answers questions from MT-Bench, a standard benchmark. We use custom evaluation criteria and instructions from the link:www.huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2[Mistral-7B] model to rate the answers from 1-10, based on helpfulness, accuracy, and detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This examples uses link:www.unitxt.ai[Unitxt] to define custom metrics, and to see how the model (link:www.huggingface.co/google/flan-t5-small[flan-t5-small]) answers questions from MT-Bench, a standard benchmark. Custom evaluation criteria and instructions from the link:www.huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2[Mistral-7B] model are used to rate the answers from 1-10, based on helpfulness, accuracy, and detail.
```

.Prerequisites
* You have logged in to {productname-long}.

* Your cluster administrator has installed {productname-short} and enabled the TrustyAI service for the data science project where the models are deployed.

* You are familiar with how to use Unitxt.

* You have set the following parameters:
+
.Parameters
[cols="2,4"]
|===
| Parameter | Description

| Custom template

> | Tells the judge how to rate (1-10 scale, what to look for).

Reviewer: Is it a 1-10 scale _and_ what to look for as a plain text descriptor? Or are these suggestions of how to fill the template?

Author: I think this would be better written as ""Custom Template: A set of instructions and formatting rules. For example,  how the input data is presented and how the LLM should respond."

| `formats.models.mistral.instruction`
| Formats the prompts for the Mistral model.

| Custom LLM-as-judge metric
| Uses Mistral-7B with your custom instructions
|===

.Procedure
. Update the TrustyAI configuration to allow online model access and code execution, by applying the following instructions to the test namespace, through the command line interface (CLI).
ifdef::upstream[]
The operator `-n test` becomes `-n opendatahub`.
endif::[]
ifndef::upstream[]
The operator `-n test` becomes `-n redhat-ods-applications`.
endif::[]
+
[source, bash]
----
 oc patch configmap trustyai-service-operator-config
 -n test --type=merge -p '{
   "data": {
     "lmes-allow-online": "true",
     "lmes-code-execution": "true",
   opendatahub.io/managed:"false"
   }
 }'
----

. Apply the following manifest through the CLI. The YAML content defines a custom evaluation job (`LMEvalJob`), the namespace, and the location of the model you want to evaluate.
The YAML contains the following instructions:
.. What model to evaluate.
.. What data to use.
.. How to format inputs and outputs.
.. Which judge model to use.
.. How to extract and log results.

[NOTE]
--

> You can put the YAML manifest into a file using a text editor and then apply it by using the command `oc apply -f file.yaml` either.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can put the YAML manifest into a file using a text editor and then apply it by using the command `oc apply -f file.yaml`.
```
Shouldn't these just be instructions in the text?

Reviewer: Ah OK! Maybe we should say something like:
```suggestion
You can also put the YAML manifest into a file using a text editor and then apply it by using the command `oc apply -f file.yaml` either.
```

= Using LLM-as-a-Judge metrics with LM-Eval

[role='_abstract']

You can use a large language model (LLM) to assess the quality of outputs from another LLM, known as LLM-as-a-Judge (LLMaaJ).

You can use LLMaaJ to:

* Assess work with no clearly correct answer, such as creative writing.
* Judge quality characteristics such as helpfulness, safety, and depth.
* Augment traditional quantitative measures that are used to evaluate a model's performance (for example, `ROUGE` metrics).
* Test specific quality aspects of your model output.

Follow the custom quality assessment example below to learn more about using your own metrics criteria with LM-Eval to evaluate model responses.

This example uses link:www.unitxt.ai[Unitxt] to define custom metrics and to see how the model (link:www.huggingface.co/google/flan-t5-small[flan-t5-small]) answers questions from MT-Bench, a standard benchmark. Custom evaluation criteria and instructions from the link:www.huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2[Mistral-7B] model are used to rate the answers from 1-10, based on helpfulness, accuracy, and detail.

.Prerequisites
* You have logged in to {productname-long}.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we need the usual 'You have downloaded and installed the OpenShift CLI' prereq here?

Example: https://github.com/opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation/blob/main/modules/configuring-trustyai-with-a-database.adoc?plain=1#L15

* Your cluster administrator has installed {productname-short} and enabled the TrustyAI service for the data science project where the models are deployed.

* You are familiar with how to use Unitxt.

* You have set the following parameters:
+
.Parameters
[cols="2,4"]
|===
| Parameter | Description

| Custom template
| Tells the judge to assign a score between 1 and 10 in a standardized format, based on specific criteria.

| `processors.extract_mt_bench_rating_judgment`

> | Pulls the numerical rating from judge's response.

Reviewer 2: Suggest updating to 'Pulls the numerical rating from **the** judge's response.'

| `formats.models.mistral.instruction`
| Formats the prompts for the Mistral model.

| Custom LLM-as-judge metric
| Uses Mistral-7B with your custom instructions
|===

.Procedure

> . Update the TrustyAI configuration to allow online model access and code execution, by applying the following instructions to the test namespace, through the command line interface (CLI).

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding the usual 'log in to the OpenShift CLI' first step here. (e.g. **https://github.com/opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation/blob/main/modules/configuring-trustyai-with-a-database.adoc?plain=1#L40**)

No need to mention the CLI in each subsequent step, so can update this line to:

Update the TrustyAI configuration to allow online model access and code execution by applying the following instructions to the test namespace.

ifdef::upstream[]

> The operator `test` becomes {dbd-config-default-namespace}.

Reviewer 2: In lines 54 and 57, suggest adding backticks around '{dbd-config-default-namespace}'.

endif::[]
ifndef::upstream[]
The operator `test` becomes {dbd-config-default-namespace}.
endif::[]
+
[source, bash]
----
 oc patch configmap trustyai-service-operator-config
 -n test --type=merge -p '{
   "data": {
     "lmes-allow-online": "true",
     "lmes-code-execution": "true",
   opendatahub.io/managed:"false"
   }
 }'
----

> . Apply the following manifest through the CLI. The YAML content defines a custom evaluation job (`LMEvalJob`), the namespace, and the location of the model you want to evaluate.

Reviewer 2: Suggest removing 'through the CLI' regardless, but is there a specific command for applying the manifest if it's _not_ placed into a file first?

Author: Good catch! I can include oc apply - f -
